---
title: "Perfect continuous tense"
date: "2019-13-12"
---

## Perfect continuous tense
The perfect continuous tense is effected by the past, present and the future. Therefore we get a past perfect continuous, present perfect continuous and future perfect continuous.

So what is the perfect continuous tense?
The perfect continuous tense combine both, the perfect tense and the continuous tense together. So this form of tense is used when the action us in progress before another action occurs.

Action is both ongoing and completed, so we add (ing) to the end of the verbs to show the action is ongoing and we use the word **'have'** to suggest the completion of the action.

He/she/it use the word *'has'*. We also include the word **'been'** to show that it is perfect continuous and to emphasis the duration of the action.

### Present Perfect continuous
If an action that began in the past continuous to the present then we use the present perfect continuous tense. With an emphasis on the duration. We use the word **'have'** to suggest the completion of the action.

He/she/it use the word **'has'**. We also include the word 'been' to show that it is perfect continuous and to emphasis the duration of the action.

I have been swimming a lot.
She has not been swimming a lot.
They have been playing.

### Past perfect continuous
If an action was in progress before another event in the past, then we use past perfect continuous With an emphasis on the duration. As it is the past tense we use the past of **'have'**. which is **'had'**.

I had been swimming for two hours, before i went home.   
I had been running.
It had been walking.
We had been flying.

### Future perfect continuous
If an activity will be in progress before another time or event in the future, we use the future perfect continuous tense. As it is the future tense we use the future of **'have'**, which is **'will have'**. 

I will have been swimming for two hours, before i go home.
She will have been swimming.
They will have been playing.

| Tense | Simple | Continuous | Perfect | Perfect + Continuous |
|--|--|--|--|--|
| Present | verb (s) | am/is/are + verb + ing | has/have + PP | has/have + been + verb + ing |
| Past | verb + ed | was/were + verb + ing | had + PP | had + been + verb + ing |
| Future | will + verb | will + be + verb + ing | will + have + PP | will + have + been + verb + ing |
